1. Right now, the project is a direct port of the levels from the Sega Saturn port of Quake back to the PC into a highly capable Quake Sourceport called FTEQW. The levels (a propietary binary format from Lobotomy Software's in-house 3D game engine) are being ported through Blender into a model format called IQM (Inter-Quake Model) which the FTEQW sourceport can actually load as a level itself. No need to compile them into PC Quake's actual level format (yet). I've also written some new code for the sourceport to make it optionally appear more like the Saturn port, with a low-resolution display and the original weapon sprites (yes, sprites!) in place of PC Quake's 3D weapons.

2. I first started working on it in September 2021, a little bit more in February 2022, and then huge progress in the last week. As you can see, the level data (geometry, textures, lighting) can all be successfully ported from every level in the game, though entities and monsters are the next big hurdle. I have no idea when it might be done, or when I could potentially release it, but I'm working through all the level data pretty fast so I hope I'll be able to have more information there soon.

3. Rich Whitehouse (@DickWhitehouse) wrote the original documentation on the level format in 2015, when he was working on his own importer tool, I just adapted his documentation to KaitaiStruct and Python to allow them to be directly imported into Blender. The main contributors (besides myself) have been vfig (@vfig) and Paril (@Paril101), who greatly helped me in understanding the intricacies of the level data format and getting it converted.

4. It will include every level from the Saturn port of Quake, including all the unique levels (and the Dank and Scuz easter egg). They'll be accessible just as they were in the original port, but also through the developer console.

5. I think the Saturn port of Quake is extremely interesting, Lobotomy Software were an extremely talented group of people who were under a lot of pressure to deliver products on time to SEGA. They only ended up releasing 3 games, all of them using their own in-house 3D engine, but two of them were ports (Duke Nukem 3D and Quake). Powerslave has been talked about at length already, but that game is of course very special. I'm hoping to get in contact with former developers from Lobotomy and learn more about their development process. I think their work deserves to remembered, and playable on modern hardware without emulation. I'm doing my absolute best to make it a straight port of their game, with no corners cut and no liberties taken. I want to represent it as best as I can.

I'm happy to go over the more technical details with you if you like.